All right, so now that you are quite
comfortable with the comprehensions,
at least the list comprehension,
I will challenge you again.
Yes.
The whole part of learning
process is to take enough challenges
and help that so that
your brain exe start working.
So I'll throw up a relatively simpler
challenge first, and then I'll
give you a really complex challenge
and we'll ask you a question.
I'm pretty sure you'll get
it wrong at the first go.
Usually people does.
But that's okay.
You will learn a lot in this one.
So let me take you
on the screen directly.
And we're going to just work with,
the comprehensions first.
So this comprehension next is going
to be the set comprehension.
So 02 set compre py.
All right, good enough.
Fair name.
So how does the set
comprehension work?
And you will be surprised
to know the set comprehension is
almost exactly.
Not almost exactly.
It is exactly same.
It works with the same thing
expression for item
in iterable if condition.
So you might be wondering,
all right, it goes exactly same.
So what can go wrong with this one?
This thing, the first bracket
that makes it as a list.
So if you go ahead and change this
to just like this, it becomes a set.
Is it that much?
Yes, literally is.
But now we are going to focus
more on this one expression.
What does this.
This expression means?
And you will get more clarity on
the lists as well with this example.
That's interesting.
Let me show you this.
So let's go up here.
We'll have a simple, the most
basic example first.
So let's just say we call this as,
favorite, favorite choice.
There we go.
Favorite choice.
And this is going to be a list.
And again, this guy got up again.
So this is how we have it.
All right, let's just say the first,
we have couple of lines of this.
So let's just go with the easy one.
Sub.
So this is my masala chai.
Then we have green T.
And let's just assume
this is my orders.
So I said masala chai again.
And let's just say we have more.
Although lemon is also my favorite.
But let's just say
I've ordered it less.
Lemon chai.
Lemon chai doesn't sound great.
I actually prefer lemon T to call it.
Don't know, for some reason.
We have another one
which is green, T.
And then we have, maybe lichi, chai.
All right, so we can see if we have
this favorite chai as a list.
We have masala chai.
Oh, that's Two times we have green T
which is also two time.
I don't prefer green T but let's
just say if we want to find out
how many unique chais are there.
So definitely masala chai is
one unique green chai is
another one Lemon and Elijah.
So these are unique teas.
How can I find a unique ones?
Whenever there is an idea
of unique ones, you go with the set.
So how does the set work?
I'll just go ahead and say this is
uniquechai and pretty easy if you
know the comprehension that should
be easy and expression for item
in iterable if condition.
So let's not focus much
on the expression first.
Let's start always with
for item in iterable if condition.
So this is how the value should
be read or this is how
you should write it for item
in iterable if condition.
So we'll also do this one and most
of the time you'll see people
actually does exactly same.
So we'll just go ahead and say for
chai in favorite chai's and then
we write the if condition.
So I'll just go ahead and say
for chai in chai's and then the same
for chai in favorites
and automatically I don't have
to put any if condition here.
I can, I will do that in later on.
But if I go ahead and do this
for chai in favorite chais
automatically whatever is coming up.
And since we have started
with the curly braces, I don't
have to write much if condition
automatically the unique
values will come to me and I
just have to store this.
So what we are calling this so chai
so whatever is the final value.
Remember the keyword here, final
expression which is evaluating.
This is what we write
at the very top.
So automatically don't
have to do anything.
I hope you get the idea what
or where I'm going with this.
So if I go ahead and print out the
unique chai, I hope you got the
answer that if I go ahead and say
Python 3 let's just run 02 and
there we go, we got all the unique
values.
Now surely I can go ahead and
write this that hey, just say
there is an if condition and I
go ahead and say calculate the
length of same example, length
of the chai then what do I want
to do?
If it is greater than 8,
then we'll go ahead and do this.
Surely there's a lot of ways
how you can work with this.
You get the idea, you
are now getting it.
Probably 8 is everything
is greater than 8.
Anything less than 8
probably will get nothing.
But I would love to save this
and run this one more time.
So we got the empty set.
You can't see it.
There we go.
So we got the empty set in this one.
So again, there could be many ways
of doing this, but, you got
the idea that how this is being
done and how you can have
the unique values onto this one.
So I'll just remove this if part
because it is not required.
But now you understand
the syntax of it.
But the most important
part now, which will confuse you
for a moment, but you'll get
more clarity into this one.
Let me just go with this.
The thing that will confuse
you next is going to be something
a little bit complex.
So you got the idea
how the syntax works.
So expression for item in iteratable.
If condition.
If you have the condition,
that's great.
Sometimes you can avoid it.
We just saw an example.
But what goes in this expression?
Okay, we have seen this,
that whatever you write
it here goes up here.
But what if we have
some complex example?
I'll write a complex example for you.
So let's just say we have recipes.
And this recipes is a dictionary.
What does dictionary does?
It has a key value pair.
So we have a, masala chai.
And the value is going
to be an array.
Very interesting.
So we have ginger.
There we go.
Another masala that
we have is cardamom.
And the last one that
we have is clove.
All right, we'll have a comma,
and we'll duplicate it two times.
So this time.
Oh, this should be
masala, not masal chai.
This one is going to be elaichichai.
And for the lychee, we
are using cardamom.
And the next one.
Oh, this should be cardamom.
Again, ignore the typos.
This one is having milk, but we
don't have anything else.
Again, this could be.
This is just recipe.
It could be anything.
All right, the last one that
we have is going to be spicy.
For the spicy chai, we
definitely want to put ginger.
We don't want to put cardamom.
We will put black pepper.
That's going to be very, very spicy.
And clove is also good.
So very spicy chai.
All right, so we have a recipe.
Now.
We want to find
all the unique spices.
Yeah, this one is complex.
You get the idea.
All right, so ginger is the one,
but ginger is also here.
So we need to figure out a way
how we can find out all the unique,
spices into this one.
So first, let's go ahead and work
with the unique, spices.
So can we go ahead for
the uniqueness, since the keyword is
unique, can we use this one?
All right, now all we have
to do is write comprehension.
Now here's the interesting part.
We actually will use
the underscores here.
Many of the underscores, because
we are about to fill this.
All right, the step one
is loop through it.
So I'll just go ahead and say
for ingredients in recipe.
So if you go ahead and work
with this recipe, this is a key
value pair, and you are not
iterating through it right now.
You are just referencing it.
It's not directly iteratable.
But I know one thing that if I
have a dictionary, if I put up
a dot here, I can access all
the keys or the values if I go
ahead and run the values like
this.
Now I have all the values.
So first iteration will go
like this, the second will
go like this, and the third
one will go like this one.
But if I go ahead and just
say keys, then I'll iterate
over this guy first, then this
guy, and then this one.
All right, so then the step
one, I'm actually going through
with all this value.
Let me go ahead and get
more room for myself.
So this is the part one.
All right.
Notice here we says for item
in iterable, and then we have
always seen the if condition.
Now, it doesn't always need
to be if condition.
You can actually write
more code after this.
This is the interesting part,
but everywhere the syntax is same.
So once I'm inside this,
now I'm iterating, I'm going
through with this one.
So can I run a loop
on this one as well?
And yes, you can.
You can just go ahead and say
just a space and say four.
And let's call this
one as a spice in.
And I, will call this one as
ingredients, because remember, you
are targeting this as ingredients.
So for spice, that means for
each item in this is what we are
referencing as ingredients.
Got it.
Very interesting way
of writing the code.
But the bigger question here
is what should I write
in place of this underscore?
Should I write ingredients
or should I write spice?
Go ahead and vote for it.
I would wait for it.
Try this out.
This is very fun.
Now most of the people will
say ingredients, because
this is what we have seen.
Whatever we write here,
we go ahead and use it in expression
if we are using item.
So we go ahead and write
in the expressions here, we have
seen mighty, always mighty.
Goes up here.
But no, this is not correct.
This is not how it works.
Whatever the ultimate value you
return from this whole thing
is actually going in the expression.
So whatever the whole thing you are
trying to use or trying to go with
this, that actually ultimate goes.
So ingredients in this
case is a middleman.
We are just using it
for storing a temporary value inside
this, and ultimately we
are checking it for spice.
So the value that will go here
is going to be spice here.
There we go.
And I, know this is a lot.
That's why I say initially,
it is very tricky
to understand the comprehension.
But after watching this video,
you'll realize,
okay, this is a very extreme case.
And that's why I'm here to teach
about the extreme cases.
Now, if I go ahead and simply
say that I want to print,
the unique spices,
I hope we'll get the results.
So I'll just go back
onto this syntax.
All right, let's open this
up and try to run this.
And notice here we got
the clove, cardamom, ginger,
black pepper, and milk.
We were able to get
unique values out of it.
Very interesting aspect of dealing
the things, especially when we
have these set comprehension.
I'm pretty sure you have not seen
anybody going this much depth in
this, but this is a very use case.
It took us some time to actually
figure out this use case,
but now you have more confidence.
All right, I truly understand
what goes inside this.
And every single time.
Now I'll write this syntax
of comprehension.
I'll go and start with a loop
first, because this is.
Or this can be filled later on.
So I hope this was,
a pretty fun exercise for you.
Please do rate us for this
particular video as well.
That.
All right, you enjoyed this video.
You learned quite a lot.
Little bit uncomfortable,
but you learned a lot.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up, in the next one.